[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> How can deep pain
change your life?
How might fear
propel you farther
than you ever could
have imagined?
Why is intuition one of the
most important tools for women
to survive and thrive?
World renowned health and
transformation expert,
Danette May, is here
to tell her story
about how reaching
rock bottom was
a stepping stone to radically
changing her life, health,
relationship, and career.
Her international company
now has 1.5 million followers
seeking transformation.
Wow, Danette, it's
great to have you here.
Thank you for being
with us today.
>> Yeah, I'm excited to be here.
>> Let's hear your story.
Let's start off
with, just tell us
a little bit about where
everything began for you.
>> Yeah, I think my story begins
where a lot of our stories
begin.
You know, a little girl growing
up in a small town in Idaho.
I have four older brothers.
You know, the world's
at my feet, right?
I can choose and go
in the directions.
But like all of us, I was hit
with different levels of pain,
different levels of challenges.
And for me, I was raised
in a very strict religion.
And from-- as a
personality that I am,
I follow a lot of the rules.
And so I was doing
everything right
to be that perfect
little girl, to live
in to the dreams of my parents,
my brothers, my community.
And what it did, is it
led me into a marriage
that I wasn't quite
sure was my resonation.
It was more of this is
the right thing for me
to do for religion.
And got married, even
though everything
in the fiber of my being
was like terrified.
I was even like sick
on my wedding day.
When I went to go get my--
you know, you get your
wedding certificate?
>> Yes.
>> I literally thought a
block from it, I was like,
can we do this on another day?
And, of course, he's like, OK.
And then, we--
because my intuition
was just like raging
of just fear, right?
And so, we got married.
Had a beautiful girl.
And then I got pregnant with my
second child, which was a boy.
And ended up losing him.
And it was my really my
first lowest rock bottom.
And then had a surprise
pregnancy with my third,
which was my daughter.
And my world was
crumbling at this point.
I didn't even know I
was pregnant with her.
And found out, lies in
my relationship, things
that I probably should have
seen but I was shoving down,
because I was just on autopilot.
And ended up going through
a really hard divorce.
Going through depression
after losing my son.
And found myself
$47, single mom.
Sold all my furniture, so there
I was, sleeping on the floor,
eating beans and
weenies, trying to take
care of these two girls.
>> This is a lot.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, many of our viewers
maybe have experienced one
of these things, maybe two.
You spoke about intuition.
And can you tell us
something about--
you shared with us
earlier about an intuition
that you had during your
pregnancy with your son.
>> Yeah.
>> And can you just tell people
what happened for you there?
Because I think it's
going to be impactful.
>> What I do want to say is that
each one of us have intuition.
And it's not like
some people have it
and you have to
go search for it.
It's always talking to you,
whether it's in maybe just
a hunch in your mind, or
a sensation in the body.
And for me, I was
pregnant with my son.
And just like all new moms,
you find you those moments
where you're alone, and you get
to feel the baby kick, right?
And I was far enough along that
my baby was kicking regularly.
And it was-- I remember
the day, because I
was sitting in the living room
and it was actually quiet.
And it was like
the snow was out.
And I was sitting in
the rocking chair.
And I put my hand on
my belly, and it was
like, I don't feel anything.
And that was the first moment I
knew something could be wrong.
But of course, if
you're on autopilot,
and you're really good at
turning off your intuition
to keep your life in the
same pace it's been going,
you find a distraction.
So I just, eh, that's just my
brain playing tricks on me.
So I started to move
my belly around,
trying to see if I
could wake him up,
and didn't feel anything.
And it was almost like that
game on your shoulders,
where one voice is
like, something's wrong.
And then the other voice is
like, you're just paranoid.
>> Don't be negative.
>> Yeah.
And what I know now,
which I didn't know then,
is that I was so good at
turning off my intuition,
because my intuition was
talking about my beliefs,
my daily actions, my
relationship with my spouse.
And if I started listening
now to my intuition,
I was going to disrupt
everything in my life.
>> Where would it stop, right.
>> And I think a
lot of us do this.
We're afraid to really
listen to that intuition,
because what does that mean.
That means I have
to make a change.
>> My world's going
to collapse around me,
just because of this.
>> Yeah, so what I did, is I got
up and went and did the dishes.
>> Mm-hmm.
>> Yeah, and that ended up
spiraling into obviously I lost
my son.
You know, and I'm not
going to say that had I
gone to the hospital in that
moment, maybe he would be here.
I'm not going to put that
on me, nor should anyone.
But it's a good
reminder, always, for me,
is like that voice knows.
That intuition in
your cells it knows.
And can I stand in it,
even if it's uncomfortable?
Can I honor it, even if
it's going to disrupt
the current flow of my life?
>> You mentioned that you were
raised in a strict environment.
And that maybe religion had
something to do with that.
>> Yeah, you know, and the
reason I'm willing to share all
this, and it's not to say that
one religion's wrong or right,
or any of that context, I
share this because I believe
we're all raised to
some degree like this.
We're born fully free.
And then to the good intent
of our parents, good intent
of our community, we're
imposed with the beliefs
that they carry.
>> Yeah, in an attempt
to take care of us.
>> Totally, our safety.
Safety in the physical
realm and the safety
in the spiritual realm, right?
And so, when you're imposed
with these belief systems,
and you're really taught--
you've got to follow this,
and this is how we
do it, and there's
really no why, it's
just this is how
it is, even though your
intuition is telling you,
oh, maybe I don't
actually believe that,
or I actually want
to go do this,
and you're telling me to do
this, or I want to eat this,
and you're telling
me we can't eat
this, because this doesn't
abide with our religious views,
or whatever the story is.
You get really good at
like just switching off
your own inner
knowledge to follow
the streamline of the tribe.
Because none of us don't want--
none of us want kicked out.
All of us want a
seat at the table.
We want to all be invited to
the popular table, or the family
table, or whatever table.
>> Please the big people.
They're feeding us, right?
>> Yeah, so that's really
where I picked it up.
And that's also where I
learned to shut it off--
yeah.
And
>> When we shut it off, we know
now that that leads us down
a pathway that ultimately
will create pain in our lives
in some form, which will
ultimately be a wake-up call.
>> Yeah.
And I think we can also
receive pain even following
our intuition, and there's
really no wrong path.
I think the path--
all paths, even if they feel
quite destructive, or painful,
or even abandonment, all
these different paths
will ultimately, I think,
lead to our ultimate destiny.
And it's just, we really might
just go on a different journey.
But the ultimate destiny, I
think, we'll end up being at,
all of us.
>> Yes.
And it leads to this really
dramatic moment in your life.
Are you able to share with us
what happened with your son?
>> Yeah, I wish I had details,
because what happened is I
started bleeding.
Go to the hospital,
they're running around,
and they basically are like
your son has passed on.
So I have him.
And they're not
quite sure if he's--
they're thinking
there's a heartbeat.
But then-- and all of it's
quite-- it's interesting also,
the human spirit.
So I do want to speak to
this, because as humans we
get ashamed if we go
through traumatic events
and we can't
remember everything.
>> Oh, well--
>> We feel a sense of shame.
>> That's a survival
instinct for sure.
It's built in.
>> So I do want to just say
and own my vulnerability,
there are moments I
cannot quite remember.
Because we went there, bleeding.
I don't know if the
baby has passed.
I'm hearing that maybe it's not.
So they induce me to have him.
And all I remember
is the nurses,
literally in this
moment, and I'm
going to speak to this because
you know hospital rooms,
they're very white.
There is a beeping sounds.
There was chaos going on.
And I remember after I had my
son, and they rush him out,
all I remember is these same
nurses coming into the room,
but it felt very
angelic in there.
And I know this is not
everyone's experience
who's lost a loved one, but
for me it was so profound,
it would be amiss not
for me to talk about it
and use my voice to say there
was something special going on
in that room.
And even this doctor,
who was very analytical,
was with me through the whole
pregnancy, just this journalist
type personality, like seemed
like an angel sitting next
to me.
And he just let me know
my baby had passed.
They weren't sure
what's going on.
They wanted to do some
tests, because they
were concerned that maybe
they had done something.
He was wondering if the baby
had picked up some infection
from the nurses even.
He was like can we
do some tests on him.
And, of course, I was like sure.
And when he came back
with the test results,
he's like we cannot
pinpoint what went on.
He's like there's a slight
infection in his lungs,
but it's not enough to
say, oh, we did that
at the time of birth.
It was very, very big.
And so I had to
really take that in.
And I think it's a
great lesson for me,
and a great lesson
for all of us,
that even if we
don't have answers,
it doesn't mean there's not
a beautiful gift wrapped up
in it.
And as my life has, unfolded
he's been such a huge gift.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
>> One of the things that I'm
always sharing with people that
has tremendous impact
on this very topic,
is that there's a soul
contract that's happening,
there's conversation-- as if
there's conversation before we
even come in that we're going
to help each other wake up
to certain things.
And it very well could be that
when you met at the bus stop,
before you came here, that
the agreement was I'll
help you awaken.
I'm just going to come
in for a short moment,
and then I'll be on my way.
And you'll be off to
do your real purpose
on the planet, which it sounds
like you're definitely--
>> So beautifully said, and I've
never heard anyone say it like
that.
It's so true.
I really have felt like that.
I just hadn't articulated in
such a beautiful way, of, yeah,
I feel he came in.
He literally passed
away to wake me up.
>> Yeah, kind of a nudge,
like go down this path.
Without this, you might
not find that path, because
of the deep pain
that is generated
in a moment like that,
that causes us to have
a re-evaluation, what you call
gifts in a certain manner,
presented in a certain manner.
And maybe you share--
>> Yeah, I call them gifts.
And I've heard this from other
people that I've aspired to,
but gifts wrapped in sandpaper.
>> Yes.
>> Because it's not
a comfortable gift.
It's not it's pretty bow.
But it is a gift,
in and of itself.
>> Like a soulful purpose
here, in all things that are
happening in our lives,
that are unfolding,
each of them seemingly,
in your situation,
to nudge you toward
this message of hey,
there's something going on
inside of us that we cannot
ignore.
>> Yes.
>> If we do, it leads to
great pain, devastating pain.
>> Yes.
>> And when we do, we heal.
>> Mm-hmm.
>> And can you say
any more about that?
The revelations that
have happened for you?
>> The big revelations for
me right now have really been
around honoring my intuition,
really listening with fine
tenuity.
And actually, I have to say,
for anyone who's in their fall,
or in their pain,
or what we call
rock bottom, that's actually
an awesome space to be in.
And the reason is, is
because at that point,
you actually don't care anymore.
You actually have let
go of all your ego.
You've let go of wondering what
someone is thinking of you,
because you're at that bottom.
>> Right.
>> You've messed up
so bad, you're there.
And so then all you
have is up to go.
And I think it's actually
a very beautiful place.
And there are books
about this, about power
coming from the rock bottom.
And so harness it.
Use it.
Because that's where
you don't care anymore.
>> Yes, in quantum science, it's
referred to as this great void.
And it's actually the place
where ultimate creativity is,
that we can become
anything in that moment
when we let go of the beliefs
that we were carrying around
or that we were trying to fit
into, who we thought we were.
>> Yes.
>> When that falls apart, or if
we surrender it consciously--
usually it's a fall
apart, but either way,
when we land in that, not
knowing that we're actually
in the most powerful
place of all time.
>> Yes, absolutely.
>> So for you, what were
the beliefs that came apart,
that came unraveling as
you were dropping in?
What were you
starting to realize
was rearranging in
this great swirl
downward toward the rock bottom?
>> Actually, pretty much
every single belief.
And I actually believe
I'm still in the swirl.
>> Yeah, may we
always be growing.
>> I may always be in the swirl.
>> Just learn how to swim
and navigate it, right?
That's it.
>> Because I was
just starting to go--
I was in this place
of, you know what?
I don't care anymore.
The ego's dismantled.
Everything is dismantled
at this point.
When you're in a state of
depression or rock bottom,
it just dismantled.
So for me, I started
looking at what
are the beliefs I'm
believing regarding religion?
Regarding the clothes I wear?
Regarding the
company that I keep?
The activities I do?
Just because someone said
that this is right or wrong
doesn't make it so.
>> Is it mine?
>> Yeah.
>> Is that mine?
>> Or is it just something that
someone lent to me at a time
when I was growing?
>> Yeah, so it was a
big unraveling for me.
And I imagine an outsider--
and I'm just-- my family
was one at the time,
was like, oh, she's
in her unraveling.
She'll come back to
herself eventually.
Because I was dismantling
my views on everything.
And really looking at it.
But at the same time,
feeling such deep peace,
but to everyone
else around me they
thought I was just
losing my mind.
>> Yeah.
>> Right?
I was getting more peaced
out and they were getting
more worried about my sanity.
>> Yes.
>> Because I wasn't fitting
into the rules anymore.
I wasn't fitting into
their beautiful box
and it was terrifying
for people,
because I was just
dismantling it all.
>> Oftentimes, people hear that
our beliefs have to change,
that our beliefs
are containing us.
But people don't really
walk around knowing
what their beliefs are.
You know, they're
inside it already.
They're kind of stuck in there.
So just give us an
example of a belief
that you suddenly
realized, I just,
I don't believe that any more.
I don't-- that's not mine.
Does an example come to mind?
>> Yeah, I'm going to go--
I'm going to do a
religion example,
because I think we all have
some form of that in our DNA.
And I have a very
thick in my DNA.
>> Yeah, it's definitely been
imprinted for a few thousand
years.
>> Totally.
And for me, like
for example, I'm
pretty much in
compliance of what I
would have worn religion wise.
But you definitely
didn't wear short shorts,
and you didn't wear tank tops.
And during the summer, I
was always blazing hot.
And I always wanted
to wear a tank top.
But I was told that that
was actually very immodest.
So I was looking at
these belief systems,
going am I-- is my
intention immodest
when I wear this tank top?
No, it's not.
I'm just hot.
And I would like to wear a
tank top, because I'm hot,
and I'm in the yard.
Huh-- I'm taught that I
actually am revealing too much
and I'm trying to be too sexy.
But that is not my intention.
That's not my truth.
And so listening to what is
my intention with what clothes
I wear.
Or what is my intention
in this relationship?
Do I love this person?
Do I want to do life to them?
Do I choose them?
Or am I marrying this
person or with this person
because I believe
they're going to get me
somewhere spiritually?
Or because it fits within
the guidelines of my parents?
So these are examples
of the stories
that you can start to
unravel, going, huh, this
is an interesting rule.
>> Yes.
>> Is it really--
>> Is it really true?
>> --true?
>> Yeah, and it's an
interesting thing,
because we don't want to
question the people that we
love, that raised us, the
people that we respect,
that we have a regard for.
>> Yeah.
>> We don't want to question
them, out of love and loyalty.
And at the same
time, if what was
working for them
isn't working for us,
we have to reconcile
that at some point.
>> Absolutely.
>> Otherwise, we
begin to implode.
>> And we get
disease in our body.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
>> What was happening for you
when you were at that lowest
point, of having not
been listening to that?
Can you describe that?
>> Yeah, just when I wasn't
listening, obviously there's--
now, I'm going to speak
to the emotion that
can come up and
see if anyone can
resonate with these emotions.
>> OK.
>> One, you feel sick.
Usually people that are not
listening to that intuition,
or just following what
everybody wants for you,
you tend to get either
sick in the body.
You can even feel it
in your lower back,
because that's unresolved
anger, that you're
like not expressing yourself.
You can even feel it,
things in the neck.
The other thing is
you can feel angry.
So for me, this is how
mine was being expressed.
I was feeling things in my
body, but I was also really good
at taking care of my body
to try to mask those things.
So there was like
interesting anger.
I'm not actually an
angry person, naturally.
But I was feeling rage.
So look at that.
If you're getting rage, starting
to just come through you,
look at that.
That's actually something
trying to communicate itself
to you, this irritability,
anxiousness, depression.
Some people experience
a sense of depression.
So these are some
signs of what comes up
when you're in your experience.
>> Yeah, exactly.
I call it the rising
of the essential self.
The soulful self
is trying to rise.
And if we keep pushing it down--
>> Yes.
>> You know, of course
that energy's going to--
at some point we're
here to break through.
So here it comes, ready or not.
We'd like it to be more
graceful than not, ideally.
>> Yeah.
>> To reflect internal conflict,
in addition to back pain
or neck pain what about other
emotional states as well,
other than anger and
rage, that are rising?
Are there other things
that you witness regularly
that are happening,
that you feel
are a part of this denial of
the intuitive self rising?
>> Well, like I said,
depression can be one of them.
That state of like
kind of low on energy.
People have trouble sleeping.
That's a big one,
especially now.
I'm seeing this happen
today, is that people are all
about how do I sleep better?
And I want to propose the
question to people is,
like how can you get more
into your soul's contract
or your soul alignment?
Because I believe if you
start to look at that,
you're sleeping is
going to be 10 times
better, versus doing all the
things, taking all the pills.
So really looking and
honoring these things.
Our bodies are so equipped
to be so functional.
They're such functional beings.
And if you're not sleeping,
or you're feeling anxious,
or you're feeling lots
of fatigue all the time,
check into the emotional
state of where you may be.
What are some truths
that maybe you're
taking on that are
not your truth?
Or what are these, what
relationships are you keeping?
What actions are you doing
that you're like that
actually doesn't serve me?
These rituals, these
daily actions from A to B,
by the time I close my eyes,
they're not serving me.
Look at all of it.
How is your day being spent?
And when do you start
to feel that fatigue?
When do you start to
feel that anxiousness,
or depression, or sickness?
Look at those patterns.
Because you can
only be-- you have
to be your own rescue, right?
We all have to be
our own rescue.
And a lot of people are
like how did you do it?
It was that.
It was like picking
apart every little piece.
>> Yes, if I'm all plugged
into shutting it out,
and tuning it out, and
doing the right thing,
and being a good person,
and the perfectionist,
and being a good daughter,
and a good sister,
and a good whatever, if I'm
caught up in that right now,
and I kind of feel it, and I'm
listening to this conversation,
and I know that I need to
listen to my intuition,
how am I going to
know what that is?
What's it feel like?
What's it sound like?
What's going on right
there, specifically,
that I'm going to be able to
start to honor and build a more
robust loving relationship?
>> With your intuition?
>> Yeah.
>> Well, there's some things I
think you need to do to start.
Like, I think a lot
of us are like, hey,
what does it feel like?
What does it sound like?
What does it do in the body?
And before I can speak to that,
I need to speak to the silence.
And I reference this in my
book, because the beautiful part
about going through
what I went through
is, all the people in my
life kind of just dissipated.
So I was left with myself.
And that was actually
a gift in itself.
So I didn't have TV.
I was broke as a joke, so
there was no TV, no cable.
I had a flip phone, so there
was definitely no like really
looking at a lot of things up.
And not a lot of-- no people
coming in and out of my life.
Like, I wasn't going out with
girlfriends for a coffee date
or--
I wasn't doing those things.
And there's beautiful,
beautiful gifts in that.
And so really, taking the
time to turn off the noise.
And I think that's so
scary for a lot of us.
That's because your spirit's
trying to talk to you.
And your ego's like no, no, no.
So as soon as you--
I guarantee every person
listening right now
has had this moment, where
you're like I really want--
I feel that something's coming,
like some knowledge is coming,
and you immediately
grab your phone.
Or you're like, oh, I'm
going to call my friend,
or I'm going to
go turn on the TV.
And they drowned it out with
news or background noise,
because it's the ego
trying to keep it all down.
So the first step
is to go, where
can I like turn off the noise?
And maybe go for
a walk in nature,
if you need to get
out of the home,
get out of the distractions.
Because you can't really get
into the power of knowing what
that intuition is until the
noise is somewhat silenced.
And so that would
be the first step,
is just turning off the TV.
Especially phones, right now,
that they're attached to us,
really being conscious of that.
And then simply asking, simply
in that silence, asking,
what would you have me know?
And this is something that has
taken my business and my life
completely to the next level.
People ask how did
you go from $47
to this eight figure
business in five years?
Because people want to
know financial stuff
all the time, which I'm
like it's soul time.
I'm telling you, sitting
down in the quiet,
and asking what would
you have me know?
And then writing down whatever
comes up, that is intuition.
And some of it will
feel like gibberish.
Some of it will be like harder,
until you get more seasoned.
It's like training any
muscle in your body.
Your soul, I trust her.
She's going to sit here
and let me speak to her.
>> Not going to abandon again.
>> Yeah, so ask what would you
have me know, and then listen.
Write it down, but then also
pay attention to your body.
So I'm going to give
some just basic ones
that I'm feeling that
someone might need to hear.
>> Excellent.
>> So a big one is
our sexual energy.
This is our creative
force, especially
if a woman's listening.
And this was a big
one for me too,
because I was in a
relationship, not a bad person.
I'm not throwing my
ex under the rug.
It was just a mix match for us.
And I had massive
sexual discomfort.
I went to every doctor.
I was looking for every serum,
potion, lotion, to like fix me,
when my body was
telling me all along,
this isn't the right match.
>> It's not a connection.
>> And I believe women get
like pain in the uterus
because there's a misalignment
in your creativity.
There's a misalignment
possibly in your relationship,
or your belief around you,
and your own sexuality.
Or buried feelings, not
letting go of the past.
Maybe there's been
trauma in the past.
And you're not letting it go.
It will manifest in that region.
And so that's your opportunity.
If you're feeling pain
in there, to look what
might be going on,
in the relationship,
your own past, that
you haven't let go of,
and your creative center.
Another one is your neck.
So a lot of people will be like,
oh, I'm so stiff in my neck.
And I'm speaking, because
I'm speaking of myself,
and so I've done
all this research.
But the neck is really--
maybe you're not
letting your voice out.
There's this disalignment
between the head and the heart,
and really looking at
how can I serve my voice?
Or am I inflexible in
decisions in my life?
And where can I
be more flexible?
And when you start to look
at things, the body speaking
to you in a sense
of emotion of what
might be going on
in your life, you
can just start
curing everything.
And you can start
feeling better too,
because you've taken
care of the emotion.
>> What were the first steps
that you took out of this dark
void, which we now
know was a good pace,
but initially is
quite scary to be in?
The event that someone watching
is experiencing that now,
what might they look
to as a first step?
>> I get this question a lot.
And I always try
to feel into it,
because that first
step for someone
might be different than another.
Because some people feel like
they got hit over a brick,
or they had this like
moment where the sky parted,
and they feel like, oh, I know
exactly what I need to do,
or I'm loved, or
whatever the emotion.
And for me, it was just
plodding day after day.
It was never just this
aha moment for me.
And so I think for me, what
worked for me was stepping
into the things that scared me.
Because everything scared me.
Wearing a tank top scared me.
Wearing a bikini
definitely scared me.
Clothes for me was a symbol
of covering myself up.
And it was something
that I had taken on,
not that someone imposed that.
But that was my way of taking
on non beliefs that didn't work
for me, was through clothing.
And so I stepped into
a bikini competition,
which to other people that
might not be a big deal.
So what is your edge?
Like ask yourself,
what is my edge?
What would be hard for
me, but be like I'm not
going to die if I do it.
I'm not going to hurt anyone if
I do it, but it terrifies me.
And when you step into
fear, every single day,
or something-- maybe
it's a big thing,
like I put my sights out on
this world's bikini competition,
because it literally was
me unraveling, unlayering--
what it does is it teaches
your subconscious you're
showing up no matter what.
And it makes you stronger
in your intuition.
It makes you stronger
in your convictions.
>> You also speak
about hinge work.
Can you describe
what this is for us?
>> Yeah, one of my
favorite quotes is,
"Small hinges move big doors."
And along my travels, one of
my favorite things to look at
is these ornate, huge, dynamic
doors to castles that open up.
And if you look at every
single dynamic, huge door,
they're held together
by these three hinges.
>> A little hinge.
>> And it's those hinges in our
lives that are going to open
the door to our life.
And so can you find
three non-negotiables
that you're going to
take on in your life that
are your honoring of yourself.
They're non-negotiables.
They're not oh,
I should do this.
It's non-negotiable.
And those are your
three hinge movements
that you're going to do
every single day to open
your big door.
>> So an example.
What's a hinge?
>> Mine are very clear for me.
And that's movement,
I move every day.
We hear about rest days.
I'm still moving on rest day.
Rest day might be a nice
little stroll, and just prayer
while I stroll.
So movement every single day.
>> And what's not a rest day,
what's movement mean for you
on a non-rest day?
>> Oh, it varies.
I love moving my body in nature.
That's just for me.
Some people like classes.
SoulCycle for me
not the same as soul
cycling out in nature
on a mountain bike.
>> Right.
>> It's all different, but
for me, it might be running.
It might be, maybe
even a lifting class.
>> So you're getting
your heart rate up.
You're breathing deeply.
You're sweating.
>> For me, that really
resonates for me.
I like to get that--
>> And someone else
might want ballet.
>> Ballet.
Totally.
>> or yoga.
>> Totally, something a
little bit more gentle.
There's no right or wrong.
We get-- we get into these
stories that there's one way.
So that's one.
The second hinge
movement is food.
And so when I talk
about food, we
can get into all these
stories around food.
All my hinge with
that is something
that's green, and
living, and came
from the earth,
every single day.
And when I consume
that food, I know
that I made a conscious
choice, to make it green,
make it living, make it
coming from the Earth.
And then the third is mindset.
So every single day
I say affirmations.
I'm such a believer in the power
of what you speak to yourself.
So it takes-- I mean,
I did it driving here.
I mean, I do it whenever, just
all the time, affirmations.
>> Yeah, you're
directing the vibration,
you're directing the attention.
>> Yeah.
>> The whole energy that
you're going to live
in, non-negotiables.
>> Non negotiables.
>> My hinges.
These are the things that are
going to happen no matter what.
>> Yep.
>> This is what I'm doing.
You mentioned food.
Speak to us about
what you're working
with regarding healing foods.
>> I'm a big lover
of healing foods.
I'm a big researcher so when
people are reading other books
at night, I'm reading all
about different types of foods
and how they affect your body.
And not just foods
in the modern way
of looking at it,
I'm really fascinated
with indigenous
tribes, and what did
they know that we could bridge
over into our modern world.
So I secretly travel
to indigenous tribes
around the world.
I study a lot of the plants,
and the different herbs,
and the things
that they consumed,
and why they consume them,
and what the benefits were.
And so for me, what I
consume, daily, and I really--
it doesn't mean that it's for
everyone, but like I said,
something green, something
that has those vital nutrients
of green and living.
And so I do that
every single day.
And that might look
like spinach, arugula.
But it's living,
and it's organic.
It's not sprayed
with pesticides.
So something like that.
I always consume lemon
every single day.
There will be times when
I'm traveling someplace
and I just can't get it, but
lemon for me balances the pH
and it's just this
clicker and reminder to me
of keeping that balance.
And then the third one for me
is cacao, and raw, particularly
raw cacao.
And I like to mix
it with turmeric.
And I like to mix it with a
little bit of MCT, and lucuma,
and mesquite, because all
those-- and cinnamon--
because all of those are
like a really combined elixir
to really help, with love, the
feeling of anandamide and love
in your body, theobromine
for the brain.
And it also,
actually, can really
help you with all the flavonols,
and helping with your cravings,
your immunity, and all of that.
So those are what I--
>> Establishing a great--
you're approaching this with
this sense of wholeness,
and how do I nurture myself.
Can you give us some
examples of what
you would use as
your affirmations
to contribute to the big
mindset and the big come
from that you're
creating for yourself
in this nurturing
regime every day.
>> The affirmations
change all the time.
But some that I really love is,
I trust the process of life.
I trust myself.
I love myself.
So I say those
to-- that to water.
And every time I'm
drinking water, I say that.
Because I believe, and I know
we know from a scientific
that it actually changes
the molecular structure
of the water.
That as I'm made up of
70% of water, that's
just going right inside of me.
So that's just helping my mojo.
So I love that.
But another affirmation, and
one that I really said a lot,
and I imagine there's
others, because I've
taken different affirmations
from different thought leaders,
but I would do this when
I was broke as a joke,
sleeping on the floor,
I would literally--
I would go in nature
and say it really loud.
I don't do that now,
but I say it every day.
And I say this,
I'm increasing in
success, abundance, and love.
And I'm aspiring my children
and others to do the same.
And that's a mantra that
I do every single day.
And I tend to like to do it
when my body's in motion, when
the cells are turning
and returning,
and the breaths
coming in and out.
And I stand behind that saying,
because it really, I believe,
has been this huge
anchor from where
I was to where I am today.
>> You spoke about do
something that scares you.
You jumped into a
bikini competition.
And we have to
come back to this,
because we came back
to everything but that.
So what regime did you plug into
to take yourself from no man's
land, what you call it, broke as
a joke, you're there, flat out.
And now you're starting
to climb up out of that.
And you're like, all right,
I'm going to take something on.
I'm going to spark
some life into my life.
I'm going to do this.
And in that moment, you
started to plug into something.
So what then did
you do that allowed
you to be in a
bikini competition
and have the
confidence to do that?
>> It started with a question.
>> I'm guessing it
worked out well for you.
>> Yes.
>> All right.
>> It did.
I started with a
question, though.
And that was, what
really terrifies me?
And not just terrifies
me because it
feels scary, but terrifies me
on a deep, deep, deep level.
And I like wrote down
like snowboarding,
because I always liked skiing.
And I wrote down--
I can't remember, some
of the other ones.
But then I was
like unpacking it.
So this is the work,
is like asking yourself
these deep questions.
And it's not like I
just popped up and was
like I'm going to do
a bikini competition.
I was really being
deliberate, intentional
of what is something
that scares me.
And the thing about
the bikini competition
that I love now in
hindsight is that it was
a form of my transformation.
And a lot of times we
think transformation
comes from sitting in caves
and meditating, and I'm like,
oh, it can happen in a bikini.
So it's just like bring
this up to put these ideas
around transformation.
But for me-- and granted, this
isn't going to be everyone
else's fear--
one, it wasn't so much about
being in a competition.
It was, I was in a bikini.
I grew up not ever
wearing a bikini
or exposing my body ever,
not at the pool, ever.
So that was a fear.
I'd never worn
high heels before,
nor that idea of high heels
and my brain was that's sexy
and that's not holy.
So I was like I'm going
to get in those high heels
and do the unholy thing.
Because I got to break this
idea of what's holy in my brain.
And I can still be loved by a
creator, and wear high heels,
and be sexy.
I had to break
that within myself
to get to this deeper
sense of self-love.
So it wasn't that I was like
in tune to all those thoughts,
but it was like,
oh, high heels, I've
never walked in
high heels, I look
like a giraffe in high heels.
Like, how am I going to do this?
And then, the element of
bikini, high heels, competition,
was like the perfect stewing--
>> The perfect storm.
>> --of just deep, deep fear.
And it was terrifying.
And I knew that I was
like, oh, if I register
for like a local
show, I can just
get out of a local show, because
I also have this money thing.
Like back then, I
had this money thing.
Like I was broke
as a joke, so I was
like if I just put a couple
hundred dollars down,
I might be like, oh, I'm sick
today, I can't do this show.
>> Baby steps with
the back door open.
>> So I totally
registered for the World.
So which I was like the
only one who hadn't done
a competition at the World.
It was displayed on ESPN.
And it was in Toronto.
So I had to buy a plane ticket.
I had to pay this
price to do Worlds.
And I knew, just my
personality, that if I'm
going to put down that chunk
of change, I'm showing up.
And I'm going to do the work.
So that's where it really came
from, is what would scare me.
And I got so much
from that, because--
not that I want
to do another one.
And I did place in the top 10.
And I was reading Wayne Dyer's
book, "The Power of Intention,"
during my training.
So I visualized,
visualized, visualized,
because I was the
girl who didn't
know how to move her hips.
I was the girl who'd never
walked in her high heels,
I mean such a tomboy.
And I really learned a lot.
>> So how did you
achieve the goal?
What happened?
Did you have to deprive
yourself of things?
Did you have to change
radically in your preparation?
You know, here you've
invested in this thing,
you're going to go for it.
>> Totally.
>> So now what did
you have to do?
>> And this is why I also
love that I did this.
Because we often think that to
achieve this idea of sexiness
or worthy of being
in a bikini that we
have to deprive
ourselves of food,
the very life force
that's there to heal us.
>> Right.
>> Or we have to abuse the
very life force of movement
that's there to heal us.
And I did it in such a way
that was super healing.
And this is where all my
programs are based from now.
Because I was like, oh, my gosh,
I'm eating six times a day.
I was just choosing
really healing foods.
I got rid of everything
that was processed.
And really just chose the
healing things, the plants.
And I was eating six--
I was like, I'm going
to eat six times a day.
I'm going to eat
when I'm hungry.
And I'm not going
to deprive myself.
I removed refined sugar.
I removed anything in the
middle of a grocery store,
that we would
typically buy, that's
boxed, and has all
these other things
added that do not serve us.
And I'm not saying that
that's how I always live,
but at this time I
made that decision
that this was the food
I was going to eat.
But I wasn't depriving.
I was actually feeling way more
energy than I've ever felt.
I was waking up to myself,
because I was eating really
healing foods.
And I wish sometimes I would
be like that more diligently,
because now I will splurge
on different white sugars
here and there.
But when I was doing that,
everything was coming alive.
It was like food was just
going into the cells.
So I did that.
And I didn't work out extreme.
I actually didn't.
I trained five days a
week, 30 to 45 minutes max.
And I did some weights,
I did some running,
and that was that.
>> Yeah.
>> And so I really didn't
have to do anything too crazy
and actually felt like
everything was waking up inside
of me.
>> And not that it's
about a bikini competition
for everyone, because some
people will have a very
different goal, but
something will scare them.
And that decision
to go ahead with it
is going to lead
them to a focus.
>> Yeah.
>> And then the universe
is going to show up to help
support that.
It's going to happen.
And all kinds of things
are going to shift.
What kind of women are
seeking training and guidance
in your programs?
Who is it that's showing up,
saying, hey, hey, hey, me too?
Who is that?
>> Well, I actually
know who are avatar is.
It's really beautiful.
In our business, we got shut
down from Facebook twice.
And that was like
our lead generation.
And we now get invited
to their headquarters.
They team up with us on
all of our projects now.
And they were telling me, they
knew algorithms on our business
that I just didn't even know.
And they said that we had
reached 190 million households
in a nine month period.
And they were organic.
And they said we know
exactly who you're reaching
and who's watching you.
And I was blown
away, and we were all
blown away with these stats.
And it was interesting
what these men
at this roundtable
at the headquarters
were saying about these women.
And these were
women who had gone
to high school, actually gotten
a lot of the perfect things--
they're married, they got
the picket white fence,
they live in a nice home,
they have some resources,
and they want the truth.
And they'd tried
things in the past
and they're ready
to be fed the truth.
And I thought it was
interesting that men
in our roundtable at Facebook
would say, they want truth.
They feel that you have
a sense of authenticity
that they're not getting
from other things.
They're quite educated.
And so these are the women.
They're just ready for more.
And they're typically
older than me, actually.
They're women that
anywhere-- and now we're
hitting a younger
demographic now,
because I think these
younger demographic are
getting wiser and wiser.
But at the time, when I was
at the Facebook headquarters,
they were like these are women
that are ready to do something
with their lives, and they
have the resources to do it,
and they're ready to
step into their truth.
>> So why were you shut
down from Facebook?
>> So many-- we've been shut
down from Google and Facebook.
It's just part of business.
So our first-- you have to be
really careful on Facebook,
what you put on your header.
If you're a business,
or if you use anything
around the word weight loss.
>> Promises and
things like that.
>> Yeah so we got wise and hired
people that actually knew what
were within the guidelines.
>> Never mind it's working.
You're not allowed
to say it that way.
>> We were just doing our thing.
>> Yeah, so Facebook,
which I really respect,
is trying to not create any
sense of guilt for people that
are on that platform
or things like that.
>> Yeah.
Perfect, and it's working.
Why do you think that
you have this stick
rate that keeps people engaged?
What is it?
>> This is my belief, and I
don't actually have any stats
on this.
We're a big company
around stats,
but I believe because I add
this mind component to all
of my programs,
and really trying
to help women unravel this
subconscious belief that's
around not being enough,
around this idea of who
they think they are, to get
them back into their truth.
And every program comes
with this mind work.
And I believe that they
take a hold of that mind,
like doing the three minute
meditation-- what I call it--
just really simple--
they can do it driving or
whatever-- is what's made
them all stay and actually
see results long term.
>> You're also a coach.
And you speak about
the 17 second rule.
Tell us a little bit about that.
>> Well, actually,
it's interesting,
because I was
teaching about this.
And I don't know
if anybody knows--
I think it's Mel Rob-- she
has a five second rule.
I don't know if
you've read her book.
I haven't read her book,
but she's a lovely lady.
And she talks about
being five seconds.
And I've been talking
about 17 seconds.
Because that was
always what I was
noticing with myself
and my clients,
is that we get a
hunch, we get a nudge,
and a sense of inspiration.
Maybe those internal goose
bumps or an idea pops up,
and if we don't
act on it, or start
setting into motion whatever
that thought was, and like
reaching out to the
person, or going
and doing XYZ to fulfill
on it, it will go away,
or you'll find a lot of
excuses not to do it.
So you have a very small
window, whether it's
five seconds or 17 seconds--
>> That's still pretty
short, either way, yeah.
>> --to just get into motion.
Because a lot of people are
like, you're so motivated.
Which motivated is
motion, right, in motion.
And it's like no one is
more motivated than others.
It's just those who appear
motivated get things in motion
quicker, within that 17 seconds.
So can you act on that
hunch, your intuition,
your hunch, within 17 seconds,
start getting things in motion.
And it starts to spiral.
And then it looks
like you're motivated.
>> Yeah, it's just
17 seconds at a time.
>> Yeah, totally.
>> In segments.
>> Yeah.
>> Fabulous.
Where can people
come to learn more?
Where can they go to find you?
>> Well, I think the main
website where we give out free
information every single day
at DanetteMay.com would be
the easiest way to find me.
>> OK, DanetteMay.com.
>> Yeah.
>> Fabulous.
Thank you so much, Danette,
for joining us today.
Your journey is an
amazing inspiration.
And one that I know is
going to touch people,
because of your beautiful,
down to earth approach that
is so goddess like, and so
real deal at the same time.
>> Thank you.
>> So thank you, and please
keep helping people forever.
>> Thank you so much.
>> Life will ultimately hand
us what Danette calls gifts
wrapped in sandpaper.
It is up to us to
see pain and hardship
as part of our
initiation to heal,
to grow and to expand
forgiveness and self-love.
How we react to
what life hands us
may lead us to a place
of our highest potential.
To learn more about
Danette's story,
pick up a copy of
her book, "The Rise."
I'm Dr. Sue Morter.
And thank you for
watching "Healing Matrix."